# Convolutional Mask
## Image

### Original image
We going to use the Lena photos to apply our Kernel.

> :P5 sketch=/docs/sketches/loadImage.js, width=500, height=400

### Sharpen

Sharpening an image increases the contrast between bright and dark regions to bring out features. We use the following kernel

```
 kernel = [  [ 0, -1, 0 ],
          [ -1,  5, -1],
          [ 0, -1, 0 ] ]; 
```
Finally we obtein de next image
> :P5 sketch=/docs/sketches/workshop1/w2/Sharpe.js, width=500, height=500

### Emboss

Image embossing is a computer graphics technique in which each pixel of an image is replaced either by a highlight or a shadow, depending on light/dark boundaries on the original image. Low contrast areas are replaced by a gray background. The filtered image will represent the rate of color change at each location of the original image. Applying an embossing filter to an image often results in an image resembling a paper or metal embossing of the original image, hence the name. 

We use the next Kernel

```
 kernel = [ [ 1,  1,  0],
            [ 1,  0, -1 ],
            [ 0,  -1,  -1] ]
```
Finally we obtein de next image
> :P5 sketch=/docs/sketches/workshop1/w2/Emboss.js, width=500, height=500

### Box Blur

A box blur (also known as a box linear filter) is a spatial domain linear filter in which each pixel in the resulting image has a value equal to the average value of its neighboring pixels in the input image. It is a form of low-pass ("blurring") filter. A 3 by 3 box blur ("radius 1") can be written as matrix

We use the next Kernel

```
 kernel = 1/9 *[[ 1, 1, 1 ],
                [ 1, 1, 1 ],
                [ 1, 1, 1 ] ]

 Kernel = [ [0.11, 0.11, 0.11],
            [0.11, 0.11, 0.11],
            [0.11, 0.11, 0.11] ]
```
Finally we obtein de next image
> :P5 sketch=/docs/sketches/workshop1/w2/Box_blur.js, width=500, height=500



### All in one

To compar all the effects we put it together

> :P5 sketch=/docs/sketches/workshop1/w2/convolutionX4.js, width=700, height=700

## Video
> :P5 sketch=/docs/sketches/workshop1/w2/convolution2.js, width=320, height=500

<!-->> :P5 sketch=/docs/sketches/workshop1/w2/convolutionVideo.js, width=500, height=500
-->

## Reference
Filter taking from:
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kernel_(image_processing)

- https://docs.gimp.org/2.8/en/plug-in-convmatrix.html 

- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image_embossing

- https://learnopencv.com/photoshop-filters-in-opencv/



> :ToCPrevNext

