# Photomosaic
It is a technique that a set of images to recreate a picture. The picture is partinioned in sections of equal sized. Each section or tile is changed by a image that matches with the color or brightness the tile has. 
### Problem Statement
Recreate  input picture based on a set of overlapping images.
### Background
Fascination with mosaics is not a new thing. Mosaic is an art that has been around for a long time. A picture is being generated using small, colourful stones or glass pieces. That is how famous artworks in palaces and villas were created. Today's view of mosaics is still very much effected by those ancient artworks.

Over the centuries this art technique was preserved and was responsible for the visual design of important architectural structures. In the time of the Renaissance and Classicism they became more important. In those times the mosaic technique and handwork were in trend. Because of that mosaics can still be seen in the remnants of those times, in ruins and buildings from those eras.

Mosaics are also related to the controversial painting style Pointillism. Pointillism reached its peak at the end of the 19th Century. Today it is present in the works of Paul Signac, Henri Edmond Delacroix or Georges Seurat.

The modern photo mosaic is based on the same idea: a large image made from many small, colorful pieces. With one difference- the „mosaic stones“, the photos, each have their own image as well. This way there are two dimensions to the image. The main image, which gives the mosaic its overall effect, and the many individual images. A photo is formed by photos.
### Methodology
A mosaic is created by joining together a number of overlapping images and converting them into a single, seamless picture. Including a photographic scale in the mosaic then allow to take measurements from it or to convert the photograph into a scale drawing. 
### Code

This program is written in ```javascrip``` and uses a very powerfull drawing library called [p5.js](https://p5js.org). It uses a flower dataset available at [artensoft](https://www.artensoft.com/ArtensoftPhotoMosaicWizard/photobases.php) In addition, ```Python``` was used to manipulate the dataset by resizing and getting the predominant color of each image.

#### Dataset Manipulation

The original picture is divided in small blocks. Each block is replaced by an specific image available in the dataset. To make a precise match, the images in the dataset must have a representative color. ColorThief is a python library that handles this process.The images names are changed by its main color in RGB presentation.
On the other hand, due to the dataset size, each image is reduce to a size of 64x64.

```
from colorthief import ColorThief
from PIL import Image
from glob import glob
from os import rename

files = glob("dataset/*.jpg")
for f in files:
  # resize
  image = Image.open(f)
  new_image = image.resize((64,64))
  new_image.save(f)
  # color
  color_thief = ColorThief(f)
  rgb = color_thief.get_color(quality=1)
  rename(f,"dataset/{}_{}_{}.jpg".format(rgb[0],rgb[1],rgb[2]))
```

#### Loading the dataset
To make a scalable solutions, the available colors are saved in a .txt file. In the preload function, the loadStrings function trigger a callback. In this case, the callback function is loadDataset(). The purpose of this function is load the dataset images and obtain their color representation in RGB

```
function loadDataset(availableColors){
    availableColors.slice(0,datasetSize).map(c => {
        const r = parseInt(c.substring(0,3),10);
        const g = parseInt(c.substring(4,7),10);
        const b = parseInt(c.substring(8,11),10);
        dataset.push([r,g,b]);
        loadImage(`../sketches/workshop1/w4/dataset/${c}`, il => { 
            il.resize(scaleFactor,scaleFactor);
            loadedImages.push(il);
        })
    })
    noLoop();
}
```

#### Deciding the best image
The closestColor function is in charged of select and paint the image in the dataset that matches the most with the pixel that is evaluated. The desicion is based on the Euclidian distance between the RGB parameter and all the dataset RGBs.

```
function closestColor(r,g,b) {
    let minDistance = -1;
    let index;
    for (let i=0; i < datasetSize; ++i) {
        const img_i = dataset[i];
        let distance = dist(r,g,b,img_i[0],img_i[1],img_i[2]);
        if (minDistance == -1 || distance < minDistance) {
            minDistance = distance;
            index = i;
        }
    }
    noLoop();
    return index;
}
```

#### First steps
The first step is initialize the global variables that are be used along the code. Then, the picture and the dataset are loaded in the preload function. Finally the canvas is created.

```
let picture;
let w_scaled;
let h_scaled;
let availableColors;
let dataset= [];
let loadedImages = [];
const scaleFactor = 8;
const datasetSize =105;

function preload() {
    const location = '../sketches/workshop1/w4/regular_show.jpg'
    picture = loadImage(location);
    loadStrings('../sketches/workshop1/w4/availableColors.txt',loadDataset)
    //loadDataset();
    noLoop()
}

function setup() {
    createCanvas(600, 600);
    noLoop();
}
```

#### Changing a pixel by and image

Taking into account that an image  will replace a group o pixels; the easiest way to handle the groups of pixels is by reducing the original picture. This process make that a unique pixel has a color representation of the group. The implementation uses an ScaleFactor to decide size of the groups. Once we have the reduced image, we iterate over all the pixels and we use the closestColor function to find the proper image.

```
function draw() {
    w_scaled = Math.floor(picture.width / scaleFactor);
    h_scaled = Math.floor(picture.height / scaleFactor);
    picture.resize(w_scaled,h_scaled);
    picture.loadPixels();
    for(let x = 0; x < w_scaled; x++) {
        for(let y = 0; y < h_scaled; y++) {
            const [r, g, b] = picture.get(x, y);
            const index = closestColor(r,g,b);
            const pixelImage = loadedImages[index];
            image(pixelImage,x*scaleFactor,y*scaleFactor);
        }
    }
}
```


### Results
<!-- > :P5 sketch=/docs/sketches/workshop1/w4/original.js, width=700, height=700 -->
<!-- > :P5 sketch=/docs/sketches/workshop1/w4/photomosaic.js, width=700, height=700 -->
### Conclusions & Future Work


https://web.archive.org/web/20050403233331/http://home.earthlink.net/~wlhunt/History/History.html
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Photographic_mosaic
https://www.photo-mosaic.co.uk/how-it-works/what-is-a-photo-mosaic/
http://www.3hconsulting.com/techniques/TechPhotomosaics.html